No matter what NLP method you use,
you will one day find
yourself faced with an error.
For example a misclassified sentence.
In this video,
I'll show you how to analyze such errors.
>> Let us consider some
possible errors and
the model prediction that can
be caused by these issues.
One semantic meaning lost
in the pre processing step.
Two, a word order affects
the meaning of a sentence.
And three some quirks of languages
come naturally to humans was confused,
naïve based models.
So let's start.
One of your main considerations when
analyzing errors in NLP systems is what
the processed version of
the text actually looks like.
Let's look at this tweet,
my beloved grandmother with some
punctuation indicating his sad face.
The sad face punctuation in this case
is very important to the sentiments of
the tweet because it tells
you what's happening.
But if you're removing punctuation then
the processed tweet will leave behind only
beloved grandmother,
which looks like a very positive tweet.
My beloved grandmother exclamation mark
would be a very different sentiments.
So remember always check what
the actual text looks like.
It's not just about punctuation either.
Check out this tweet.
This is not good because your attitude
is not even close to being nice.
If you remove neutral words like not and
this what you're left
with is the following.
Good, attitude, close, nice.
From this set of words and
you classifier will infer that
this is something very positive.
We'll talk later on about
handling nots and word orders.
But remember double check what
your process text looks like to
make sure your model will be
able to get an accurate read.
The inputs pipeline isn't the only
potential source of trouble.
Look at these tweets.
I'm happy because I did not go.
This is a purely positive tweets.
I am not happy because I did not
go with a negative sentiment.
In this case the not is
important to the sentiment.
What gets missed by your
naïve base classifier.
So word order can be as
important as spelling.
There are many other factors to consider
as well and you will see more and
more ways to build systems that
handle them in the weeks to come.
Another problem of naïve base is
something called an adversarial attack.
The term adversarial attack
describe some common language
phenomenon like sarcasm,
irony and euphemism.
Humans pick these up quickly but
machines are terrible at it.
This tweet this is
a ridiculously powerful movie.
The plot was gripping and I cried right
through until the ending contains
a somewhat positive movie review was
pre processing my suggests otherwise.
If you pre process this tweet you'll
get a list of mostly negative words.
But as you can see they were actually
used to describe a movie that the author
enjoyed.
If you use naïve base
on this list of words,
it would end up giving a very
negative score regardless.
>> Now you know how to apply the naïve
based method to text classification.
It makes the independence assumption
which can lead to errors.
What do you know how to analyze them?
It's still a very powerful baseline,
as you know,
it relies on word frequency counts.
Next week we can learn
how to use word vectors.
This can give us better results.